+++
title = "Starting 25:5"
url = "post/starting-25-5/"
date = 2018-02-18T15:58:56-05:00
tags = ["project framework", "25 5"]
+++

It's that time again.

So years ago I did the [100:10:1 thing](/tags/ten-by-six), partly because a
friend of mine [was also doing it](https://writing.natwelch.com/post/535).

[It didn't go the best](/post/100-10-1-retrospective/), but was still pretty good
for learning.

Anyway, that same friend posted a _different_ method of choosing projects in one
of his regular posts.
So of course I'm doing that now * :)

\* by now, I actually mean I started this a while back, I'm just getting
around to posting about it now.

## So what's the deal?

Here's [a link](https://jamesclear.com/buffett-focus) to the article explaining
it.
Scroll down till you see __STEP 1:__ for the explanation.

But the short description is - list the 25 most important things for you right
now.
In this case, the 25 projects I'm most interested in doing.

Then you pick 5 of them that are even more important or interesting than the
rest.

Finally, and most importantly, you _don't_ do the other 20.
They're a distraction from the main 5.

## So what are the ideas?

The 25 ideas I came up with are (okay 27 ideas, I'm still bad at counting)

#### Websites - 12

- a list of golang conferences
- youtube, vimeo, etc playlist maker
- budget app / funds dashboard
- friend dashboard
- portfolio website
- physical email - send emails via snail mail
- site that will text you at a specific time
- get coffee with me webapp
- draw a thing a day
- photo management site
- github clone
- 100:10:1 or 25:5 webapp

#### APIs - 5

- letter api - it just returns a single letter to you
- arbitrary json api for testing
- developer journal syncing program
- random junk data site
- ifttt clone

#### Bots - 2

- bott pilgrim - a twitter bot that quotes Scott Pligrim
- dogetip bot - this was more intriguing before the cryptocurrency price
  explosion, but could still be interesting

#### Technical learning - 4

- https.quine.space - https written in Go
- merkle tree library
- simple lisp in go
- dogemail - paying dogecoin to send emails

#### Opsy things - 4

- ngrok clone
- kubernetes rpi cluster
- redis hosting site
- self hosted email

## So which ones?

So far I'm really solid on 4 of them that I'll pick (I've actually completed 2
already), but I'm still determining the 5th.
I'll let you know next post which one's I'm going with.
